README.md, before:

# Arcus - Testing
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/codit/Arcus/_apis/build/status/Commit%20builds/CI%20-%20Arcus.Testing?branchName=main)](https://dev.azure.com/codit/Arcus/_build/latest?definitionId=804&branchName=main)
[![NuGet Version](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Arcus.Testing.Logging.Xunit)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Arcus.Testing.Logging.Xunit/)
![Azure DevOps coverage (branch)](https://img.shields.io/azure-devops/coverage/codit/arcus/804/main)

Reusable testing components for Arcus repo's.

![Arcus](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus-azure/arcus/master/media/arcus.png)

# Documentation
All documentation can be found [here](https://testing.arcus-azure.net/).

# License Information
This is licensed under The MIT License (MIT). Which means that you can use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the web application. But you always need to state that Codit is the original author of this web application.

Read the full license [here](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.testing/blob/master/LICENSE).

Commit message:

docs(readme): provide meaningful short description in readme
Sync up the short introduction on the site with the `README.md` file in the repository

README.md, after:

# Arcus - Testing
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/codit/Arcus/_apis/build/status/Commit%20builds/CI%20-%20Arcus.Testing?branchName=main)](https://dev.azure.com/codit/Arcus/_build/latest?definitionId=804&branchName=main)
[![NuGet Version](https://img.shields.io/nuget/v/Arcus.Testing.Logging.Xunit)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Arcus.Testing.Logging.Xunit/)
![Azure DevOps coverage (branch)](https://img.shields.io/azure-devops/coverage/codit/arcus/804/main)

Arcus Testing is an umbrella term for a set of NuGet packages `Arcus.Testing.*` that help with the creation, maintenance, and defect localization of code testing.

> 🎖️ Specifically designed to help with integration testing against Azure resources, but also helps with tech-independent infrastructure.

In short: Arcus Testing is a set of libraries that make tests more fun to write!

![Arcus](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus-azure/arcus/master/media/arcus.png)

# Documentation
All documentation can be found [here](https://testing.arcus-azure.net/).

# License Information
This is licensed under The MIT License (MIT). Which means that you can use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the web application. But you always need to state that Codit is the original author of this web application.

Read the full license [here](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.testing/blob/master/LICENSE).
