docs/preview/02-getting-started.md, before:

---
sidebar_label: Getting started
---

# Getting started with Arcus Testing
**Welcome to Arcus Testing! 🎉**

This page is dedicated to be used as a walkthrough on how to integrate Arcus Testing in new and existing projects.
Arcus Testing is an umbrella term for a set of NuGet packages that kick-start your code testing. 

## The basics
The libraries in the Arcus Testing space are split up in these main categories:
- **Core infrastructure** (contains tech-independent functionality)
- **Assertions** (contains ways to verify functionality)
- **Logging** (contains ways to use Microsoft's `ILogger` in your test project)
- **Azure fixtures** (contains ways to interact with technology in your tests)

Depending on the context of your project, you might use one or more libraries in these categories.
The following guides will show you how to start with these categories in new or existing projects.

## Step-by-step guides
> 🎉 All classes described here are available in the same namespace : `Arcus.Testing`, regardless which library you install.


<details>
  <summary><strong>Where do your integration tests get their values from?</strong></summary>

  Usually, integration tests projects need to have configuration values: HTTP endpoints of deployed applications, access keys to authenticate to a deployed service... In your project, these values might come in from environment variables, `appsettings.json` files, or other places.

  ⚡ Arcus Testing provides a `TestConfig` class that implements Microsoft's `IConfiguration`. This class already has the `appsettings.json` and optional (local) `appsetting.local.json` files embedded upon creation. Meaning that you don't have to re-create this in each test project.

  1. Install the `Arcus.Testing.Core` NuGet package;
  2. Locate the place where your tests retrieve their values;
  3. Use the `var config = TestConfig.Create()` to create a default instance;
  4. Use the common `config["Your:Config:Key"]` syntax to retrieve your value.
  
  > 🔗 See [the dedicated feature documentation](./03-Features/01-core.md) for more information on this `Arcus.Testing.Core` package and what other common test operations you repeatably use, like polling, reading local files, etc.

</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>How do you handle assertions for data equality?</strong></summary>
  
  Integration tests usually use content types like XML, JSON or CSV to pass data between systems. When asserting on whether the system used or transformed the data correctly, you have to do an 'equal' check on that data. The problem arises when elements are in a different order, have different casing or contain values that you don't care about, but are there anyway.

  ⚡ Arcus Testing provides several `Assert[Xml/Json/Csv].Equal` classes to make this equalization check easier for you. Fully customizable with options to ignore elements, node order, and each time with a clear assertion failure message (including line number and element names) on what part is considered 'not equal'.

  1. Install the `Arcus.Testing.Assert` NuGet package;
  2. Locate the places where you do an equalization check;
  3. Load both the expected and actual contents as `string` (or `JsonNode`, `XmlDocument`...);
  4. Use the `Assert[Xml/Json/Csv].Equal` method to check for equality.

  > 🔗 See [the dedicated feature documentation](./03-Features/02-assertion.mdx) for more information on this `Arcus.Testing.Assert` package and what other equalization and failure reporting options you can use.
</details>


<details>
  <summary><strong>Do you write log messages to the test output?</strong></summary>
  
  The test output is usually the first place you look when a test fails. Either the testing framework has written the exception message to the output, and assertion method has collected some failure message, or you have written some necessary context to understand (without debugging) why a test failed.

  Testing frameworks all have their different ways of writing log messages to the test output, which means that each piece of test code that interacts with these test framework-specifics, is more tightly coupled to that framework.

  ⚡ Arcus Testing provides a way to use Microsoft's `ILogger` infrastructure in your tests instead of relying on test framework specifics. This way, you are free to write framework-independent test infrastructure.
It also helps with passing arguments to implementation code that relies on `ILogger`.

  1. Install the `Arcus.Testing.Logging.[Xunit/NUnit/MSTest]` package, according to your test framework;
  2. Locate the places where you pass an `ILogger` or use the test framework-dependent logger.
  3. Create an `new Xunit/NUnit/MSTestTestLogger(...)` instance that takes in the framework dependent logger.
  4. Now, use the `ILogger`-implemented test logger instead.

  > 🔗 See [the dedicated feature documentation](./03-Features/03-logging.mdx) for more information on these `Arcus.Testing.Logging.[Xunit/NUnit/MSTest]` packages.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>Do you interact with Azure resources in your test?</strong></summary>
  
  Integration-like tests (meaning: tests that interact with resources outside the code environment), often need additional test infrastructure to interact with those resources in a test-friendly way. If a resource store a state, you might want to clear the state at the end of the test, for example.

  ⚡ Arcus Testing provides several Azure technology-specific packages that helps with this interaction. If your system is interacting with Azure Blob storage, you can use the `TemporaryBlobContainer` in the `Arcus.Testing.Storage.Blob` package, which clears up any lingering state before/after the actual test.

  In the same fashion, Arcus Testing has packages for all sorts of Azure technologies, each time with the test-usability in mind.

  > 🔗 See the following dedicated feature documentation pages for more information on interacting with your technology in your test:
  > * [Storage Account](./03-Features/04-Azure/04-Storage/01-storage-account.mdx)
  > * [Data Factory](./03-Features/04-Azure/06-Integration/01-data-factory.mdx)
  > * See the sidebar for more technologies.
</details>

Commit message:

docs(getting_started): typo's, simplified and correct language (#391)
* docs(getting-started); typo's, simplified and correct language

The 'getting started' page contained some typo's and some duplicate meaning (like: libraries <> packages).

This PR fixes that.

* Update docs/preview/02-getting-started.md

Co-authored-by: Clément Vaillant <clement.vaillant@codit.eu>

---------

Co-authored-by: Clément Vaillant <clement.vaillant@codit.eu>

docs/preview/02-getting-started.md, after:

---
sidebar_label: Getting started
---

# Getting started with Arcus Testing
**Welcome to Arcus Testing! 🎉**

This page is dedicated to be used as a walkthrough on how to integrate Arcus Testing in new and existing projects.
Arcus Testing is an umbrella term for a set of `Arcus.Testing.*` NuGet packages that kick-start your code testing. 

## The basics
The packages in the Arcus Testing space are split into the following categories:
- **Core infrastructure** (contains tech-independent functionality)
- **Assertions** (contains ways to verify functionality)
- **Logging** (contains ways to use Microsoft's `ILogger` to write to the test output)
- **Azure fixtures** (contains ways to interact with technology in your tests)

Depending on the context of your project, you might use one or more libraries in these categories.
The following guides will show you how to start with these categories in new or existing projects.

## Step-by-step guides
> 🎉 All classes described here are available in the same namespace : `Arcus.Testing`, regardless which library you install.


<details>
  <summary><strong>Where do your integration tests get their values from?</strong></summary>

  Usually, integration tests projects need to have configuration values: HTTP endpoints of deployed applications, access keys to authenticate to a deployed service... In your project, these values might come in from environment variables, `appsettings.json` files, or other places.

  ⚡ Arcus Testing provides a `TestConfig` class that implements Microsoft's `IConfiguration`. This class already has the `appsettings.json` and optional (local) `appsetting.local.json` files embedded upon creation. Meaning that you don't have to re-create this in each test project.

  1. Install the `Arcus.Testing.Core` NuGet package;
  2. Locate the place where your tests retrieve their values;
  3. Use the `var config = TestConfig.Create()` to create a default instance;
  4. Use the common `config["Your:Config:Key"]` syntax to retrieve your value.
  
  > 🔗 See [the dedicated feature documentation](./03-Features/01-core.md) for more information on this `Arcus.Testing.Core` package and what other common test operations you repeatably use, like polling, reading local files, etc.

</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>How do you handle assertions for data equality?</strong></summary>
  
  Integration tests usually use content types like XML, JSON or CSV to pass data between systems. When asserting on whether the system used or transformed the data correctly, you have to do an 'equal' check on that data. The problem arises when elements are in a different order, have different casing or contain values that you don't care about, but are there anyway.

  ⚡ Arcus Testing provides several `Assert[Xml/Json/Csv].Equal` classes to make this equalization check easier for you. Fully customizable with options to ignore elements, node order, and each time with a clear assertion failure message (including line number and element names) on what part is considered 'not equal'.

  1. Install the `Arcus.Testing.Assert` NuGet package;
  2. Locate the places where you do an equalization check;
  3. Load both the expected and actual contents as `string` (or `JsonNode`, `XmlDocument`...);
  4. Use the `Assert[Xml/Json/Csv].Equal` method to check for equality.

  > 🔗 See [the dedicated feature documentation](./03-Features/02-assertion.mdx) for more information on this `Arcus.Testing.Assert` package and what other equalization and failure reporting options you can use.
</details>


<details>
  <summary><strong>Do you write log messages to the test output?</strong></summary>
  
  The test output is usually the first place you look when a test fails. Either the testing framework has written the exception message to the output, and assertion method has collected some failure message, or you have written some necessary context to understand (without debugging) why a test failed.

  Testing frameworks all have their different ways of writing log messages to the test output, which means that each piece of test code that interacts with these test framework-specifics, is more tightly coupled to that framework.

  ⚡ Arcus Testing provides a way to use Microsoft's `ILogger` infrastructure in your tests instead of relying on test framework specifics. This way, you are free to write framework-independent test infrastructure.
It also helps with passing arguments to implementation code that relies on `ILogger`.

  1. Install the `Arcus.Testing.Logging.[Xunit/NUnit/MSTest]` package, according to your test framework;
  2. Locate the places where you pass an `ILogger` or use the test framework-dependent logger.
  3. Create an `new Xunit/NUnit/MSTestTestLogger(...)` instance that takes in the framework dependent logger.
  4. Now, use the `ILogger`-implemented test logger instead.

  > 🔗 See [the dedicated feature documentation](./03-Features/03-logging.mdx) for more information on these `Arcus.Testing.Logging.[Xunit/NUnit/MSTest]` packages.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><strong>Do you interact with Azure resources in your test?</strong></summary>
  
  Integration-like tests (meaning: tests that interact with resources outside the code environment), often need additional test infrastructure to interact with those resources in a test-friendly way. If a resource stores a state, you might want to clear that state at the end of the test, for example.

  ⚡ Arcus Testing provides several Azure technology-specific packages that helps with this interaction. If your system is interacting with Azure Blob storage, you can use the `TemporaryBlobContainer` in the `Arcus.Testing.Storage.Blob` package, which clears up any lingering state before/after the actual test.

  In the same fashion, Arcus Testing has packages for all sorts of Azure technologies, each time with the test-usability in mind.

  > 🔗 See the following dedicated feature documentation pages for more information on interacting with your technology in your test:
  > * [Storage Account](./03-Features/04-Azure/04-Storage/01-storage-account.mdx)
  > * [Data Factory](./03-Features/04-Azure/06-Integration/01-data-factory.mdx)
  > * See the sidebar for more technologies.
</details>
