docs/preview/02-Features/04-Storage/02-cosmos.mdx, before:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# CosmosDb storage
The `Arcus.Testing.Storage.CosmosDb` package provides test fixtures to Azure CosmosDb storage. By using the common test practices 'clean environment', it provides a temporary collections and documents.

## Installation
The following functionality is available when installing this package:

```shell
PM> Install-Package -Name Arcus.Testing.Storage.Cosmos
```

<Tabs groupId="storage-types">
<TabItem value="mongodb" label="MongoDb" default>

### Temporary MongoDb collection
The `TemporaryMongoDbCollection` provides a solution when the integration tes requires a storage system (collection) during the test run. An MongoDb collection is created upon setup of the test fixture and is deleted again when the test fixture disposed.

> ⚡ The test fixture automatically uses an existing collection - if exists, but does not remove it if it was not responsible for creating the collection.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

ResourceIdentifier cosmosDbAccountResourceId = ...

await using var collection = await TemporaryMongoDbCollection.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(
    cosmosDbAccountResourceId,
    "<database-name>",
    "<collection-name>",
    logger);

// Interact with the collection during the lifetime of the fixture.
IMongoCollection<Shipment> client = collection.GetCollectionClient<Shipment>();
```

> 🎖️ Overloads are available that takes in the `IMongoDatabase` for custom authentication mechanisms. By default, it uses the [`DefaultAzureCredential`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential).

Inserting documents in the collection can also be done via the test fixture. It always make sure that any inserted documents are removed afterwards.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

await using TemporaryMongoDbCollection collection = ...

await collection.InsertDocumentAsync(new Shipment { BoatName = "The Alice"  });
```

#### Customization
The setup and teardown process of the temporary collection is configurable. **By default, it always removes any resources that it was responsible for creating.**

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

await TemporaryMongoDbCollection.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(..., options =>
{
    // Options related to when the test fixture is set up.
    // ---------------------------------------------------

    // (Default) Leaves all existing MongoDb documents untouched when the test fixture is created.
    options.OnSetup.LeaveAllDocuments();

    // Delete all MongoDb documents that already existed before the test fixture creation, when there was already a MongoDb collection available.
    options.OnSetup.CleanAllDocuments();

    // Delete all MongoDb documents that matches any of the configured filters,
    // upon the test fixture creation, when there was already a MongoDb collection available.
    options.OnSetup.CleanMatchingDocuments(
        Builders<Shipment>.Filter.Eq(s => s.BoatName, "The Alice"));
    
    options.OnSetup.CleanMatchingDocuments((Shipment s) => s.BoatName == "The Alice");

    // Options related to when the test fixture is teared down.
    // --------------------------------------------------------

    // (Default) Delete all MongoDb documents that were inserted by the test fixture.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanCreatedDocuments();

    // Delete all MongoDb documents upon the test fixture disposal,
    // even if the test fixture didn't inserted them.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanAllDocuments();

    // Delete all MongoDb documents that matches any of the configured filters,
    // upon the test fixture disposal, even if the test fixture didn't inserted them.
    // ⚠️ MongoDb documents inserted by the test fixture will always be deleted, regardless of the configured filters.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanMatchingDocuments(
      Builders<Shipment>.Filter.Eq(s => s.BoatName, "The Alice"));

    options.OnTeardown.CleanMatchingDocuments((Shipment s) => s.BoatName == "The Alice");
});

// `OnTeardown` is also still available after the temporary collection is created:
await using TemporaryMongoDbCollection collection = ...

collection.OnTeardown.CleanAllDocuments();
```

> 🎖️ The `TemporaryMongoDbCollection` will always remove any MongoDb documents that were inserted via the temporary collection itself with the `collection.InsertDocumentAsync`. This follows the 'clean environment' testing principal that any test should not leave any state it created behind after the test has run.

### Temporary MongoDb document
The `TemporaryMongoDbDocument` provides a solution when the integration test requires a document during the test run. A MongoDb document is created upon the setup of the test fixture and is deleted again when the test fixture is disposed.

When the document already existed (already a document with a same configured document ID), then the test fixture will revert to the original content of the document upon the test fixture disposal.

> ⚡ Whether or not the test fixture should use an existing document is set by using an existing document ID (`_id` by default).

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

ResourceIdentifier cosmosDbAccountResourceId = ...

var shipment = new Shipment { BoatName = "The Alice" };

await using var document = await TemporaryMongoDbDocument.InsertIfNotExistsAsync(
    cosmosDbAccountResourceId,
    "<database-name>",
    "<collection-name>",
    shipment,
    logger);

BsonValue documentId = document.Id;
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="nosql" label="NoSql">

### Temporary NoSql container
The `TemporaryNoSqlContainer` provides a solution when the integration tes requires a storage system (container) during the test run. A NoSql container is created upon setup of the test fixture and is deleted again when the test fixture disposed.

> ⚡ The test fixture automatically uses an existing container - if exists, but does not remove it if it was not responsible for creating the container.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

ResourceIdentifier cosmosDbAccountResourceId = ...

await using var container = await TemporaryNoSqlContainer.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(
    cosmosDbAccountResourceId,
    "<database-name>",
    "<container-name>",
    "/partition-key-path",
    logger);

// Interact with the container during the lifetime of the fixture.
Container client = container.Client;
```

> 🎖️ Overloads are available for custom authentication mechanisms. By default, it uses the [`DefaultAzureCredential`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential).

Inserting items in the container can also be done via the test fixture. It always make sure that any inserted items are removed afterwards.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

await using TemporaryNoSqlContainer container = ...

await container.AddItemAsync(new Shipment { Id = "123", BoatName = "The Alice" });
```

#### Customization
The setup and teardown process of the temporary container is configurable. **By default, it always removes any resources that it was responsible for creating.**

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

await TemporaryNoSqlContainer.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(..., options =>
{
    // Options related to when the test fixture is set up.
    // ---------------------------------------------------

    // (Default) Leaves all existing NoSql items untouched when the test fixture is created.
    options.OnSetup.LeaveAllItems();

    // Delete all NoSql items that already existed before the test fixture creation, when there was already a NoSql container available.
    options.OnSetup.CleanAllItems();

    // Delete all NoSql items that matches any of the configured filters,
    // upon the test fixture creation, when there was already a NoSql container available.
    options.OnSetup.CleanMatchingItems(
        NoSqlItemFilter.ItemEqual((Shipment s) => s.BoatName == "The Alice"),
        NoSqlItemFilter.ItemIdEqual("123"));
    
    // Options related to when the test fixture is teared down.
    // --------------------------------------------------------

    // (Default) Delete all NoSql items that were inserted by the test fixture.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanCreatedItems();

    // Delete all NoSql items upon the test fixture disposal,
    // even if the test fixture didn't inserted them.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanAllItems();

    // Delete all NoSql items that matches any of the configured filters,
    // upon the test fixture disposal, even if the test fixture didn't inserted them.
    // ⚠️ NoSql items inserted by the test fixture will always be deleted, regardless of the configured filters.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanMatchingItems(
        NoSqlItemFilter.ItemEqual((Shipment s) => s.BoatName == "The Alice"),
        NoSqlItemFilter.ItemIdEqual("123"));
});

// `OnTeardown` is also still available after the temporary container is created:
await using TemporaryNoSqlContainer container = ...

container.OnTeardown.CleanAllItems();
```

> 🎖️ The `TemporaryNoSqlContainer` will always remove any NoSql items that were inserted via the temporary container itself with the `container.AddItemAsync`. This follows the 'clean environment' testing principal that any test should not leave any state it created behind after the test has run.

### Temporary NoSql item
The `TemporaryNoSqlItem` provides a solution when the integration test requires a item during the test run. A NoSql item is created upon the setup of the test fixture and is deleted again when the test fixture is disposed.

> ⚡ When the item already existed (already a item with a same configured item ID), then the test fixture will revert to the original content of the item upon the test fixture disposal.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

Container containerClient = ...

var shipment = new Shipment { Id = "123", BoatName = "The Alice" };

await using var item = await TemporaryNoSqlItem.InsertIfNotExistsAsync(
    containerClient,
    shipment,
    logger);

string itemId = item.Id;
PartitionKey partitionKey = item.PartitionKey;
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

docs: explain required role-permissions

docs/preview/02-Features/04-Storage/02-cosmos.mdx, after:

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

# CosmosDb storage
The `Arcus.Testing.Storage.CosmosDb` package provides test fixtures to Azure CosmosDb storage. By using the common test practices 'clean environment', it provides a temporary collections and documents.

## Installation
The following functionality is available when installing this package:

```shell
PM> Install-Package -Name Arcus.Testing.Storage.Cosmos
```

<Tabs groupId="storage-types">
<TabItem value="mongodb" label="MongoDb" default>

> 🛡️ Make sure that the test client that interacts with the Cosmos storage has at least [`DocumentDB Account Contributor`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/role-based-access-control/built-in-roles/databases#documentdb-account-contributor)-rights if the test needs to create/update/delete collections.

### Temporary MongoDb collection
The `TemporaryMongoDbCollection` provides a solution when the integration tes requires a storage system (collection) during the test run. An MongoDb collection is created upon setup of the test fixture and is deleted again when the test fixture disposed.

> ⚡ The test fixture automatically uses an existing collection - if exists, but does not remove it if it was not responsible for creating the collection.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

ResourceIdentifier cosmosDbAccountResourceId = ...

await using var collection = await TemporaryMongoDbCollection.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(
    cosmosDbAccountResourceId,
    "<database-name>",
    "<collection-name>",
    logger);

// Interact with the collection during the lifetime of the fixture.
IMongoCollection<Shipment> client = collection.GetCollectionClient<Shipment>();
```

> 🎖️ Overloads are available that takes in the `IMongoDatabase` for custom authentication mechanisms. By default, it uses the [`DefaultAzureCredential`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential).

Inserting documents in the collection can also be done via the test fixture. It always make sure that any inserted documents are removed afterwards.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

await using TemporaryMongoDbCollection collection = ...

await collection.InsertDocumentAsync(new Shipment { BoatName = "The Alice"  });
```

#### Customization
The setup and teardown process of the temporary collection is configurable. **By default, it always removes any resources that it was responsible for creating.**

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

await TemporaryMongoDbCollection.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(..., options =>
{
    // Options related to when the test fixture is set up.
    // ---------------------------------------------------

    // (Default) Leaves all existing MongoDb documents untouched when the test fixture is created.
    options.OnSetup.LeaveAllDocuments();

    // Delete all MongoDb documents that already existed before the test fixture creation, when there was already a MongoDb collection available.
    options.OnSetup.CleanAllDocuments();

    // Delete all MongoDb documents that matches any of the configured filters,
    // upon the test fixture creation, when there was already a MongoDb collection available.
    options.OnSetup.CleanMatchingDocuments(
        Builders<Shipment>.Filter.Eq(s => s.BoatName, "The Alice"));
    
    options.OnSetup.CleanMatchingDocuments((Shipment s) => s.BoatName == "The Alice");

    // Options related to when the test fixture is teared down.
    // --------------------------------------------------------

    // (Default) Delete all MongoDb documents that were inserted by the test fixture.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanCreatedDocuments();

    // Delete all MongoDb documents upon the test fixture disposal,
    // even if the test fixture didn't inserted them.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanAllDocuments();

    // Delete all MongoDb documents that matches any of the configured filters,
    // upon the test fixture disposal, even if the test fixture didn't inserted them.
    // ⚠️ MongoDb documents inserted by the test fixture will always be deleted, regardless of the configured filters.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanMatchingDocuments(
      Builders<Shipment>.Filter.Eq(s => s.BoatName, "The Alice"));

    options.OnTeardown.CleanMatchingDocuments((Shipment s) => s.BoatName == "The Alice");
});

// `OnTeardown` is also still available after the temporary collection is created:
await using TemporaryMongoDbCollection collection = ...

collection.OnTeardown.CleanAllDocuments();
```

> 🎖️ The `TemporaryMongoDbCollection` will always remove any MongoDb documents that were inserted via the temporary collection itself with the `collection.InsertDocumentAsync`. This follows the 'clean environment' testing principal that any test should not leave any state it created behind after the test has run.

### Temporary MongoDb document
The `TemporaryMongoDbDocument` provides a solution when the integration test requires a document during the test run. A MongoDb document is created upon the setup of the test fixture and is deleted again when the test fixture is disposed.

When the document already existed (already a document with a same configured document ID), then the test fixture will revert to the original content of the document upon the test fixture disposal.

> ⚡ Whether or not the test fixture should use an existing document is set by using an existing document ID (`_id` by default).

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

ResourceIdentifier cosmosDbAccountResourceId = ...

var shipment = new Shipment { BoatName = "The Alice" };

await using var document = await TemporaryMongoDbDocument.InsertIfNotExistsAsync(
    cosmosDbAccountResourceId,
    "<database-name>",
    "<collection-name>",
    shipment,
    logger);

BsonValue documentId = document.Id;
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="nosql" label="NoSql">

> 🛡️ Make sure that the test client that interacts with the Cosmos storage has at least [`Cosmos DB Built-in Data Contributor`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/cosmos-db/nosql/security/reference-data-plane-roles)-rights if the test needs to create/update/delete containers.
> 
> **This role is not a built-in Azure RBAC, but a role specific for NoSql**. One can [assign this role with Azure CLI](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/cli/azure/cosmosdb/sql/role/assignment?view=azure-cli-latest#az-cosmosdb-sql-role-assignment-create):
> ```shell
> az cosmosdb sql role assignment create
>   --account-name "CosmosDBAccountName"
>   --resource-group "ResourceGroupName"
>   --role-definition-name "Cosmos DB Built-in Data Contributor"
>   --scope "/"
>   --principal-id "UserOrPrincipalObjectId"
> ```

### Temporary NoSql container
The `TemporaryNoSqlContainer` provides a solution when the integration tes requires a storage system (container) during the test run. A NoSql container is created upon setup of the test fixture and is deleted again when the test fixture disposed.

> ⚡ The test fixture automatically uses an existing container - if exists, but does not remove it if it was not responsible for creating the container.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

ResourceIdentifier cosmosDbAccountResourceId = ...

await using var container = await TemporaryNoSqlContainer.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(
    cosmosDbAccountResourceId,
    "<database-name>",
    "<container-name>",
    "/partition-key-path",
    logger);

// Interact with the container during the lifetime of the fixture.
Container client = container.Client;
```

> 🎖️ Overloads are available for custom authentication mechanisms. By default, it uses the [`DefaultAzureCredential`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/api/azure.identity.defaultazurecredential).

Inserting items in the container can also be done via the test fixture. It always make sure that any inserted items are removed afterwards.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

await using TemporaryNoSqlContainer container = ...

await container.AddItemAsync(new Shipment { Id = "123", BoatName = "The Alice" });
```

#### Customization
The setup and teardown process of the temporary container is configurable. **By default, it always removes any resources that it was responsible for creating.**

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

await TemporaryNoSqlContainer.CreateIfNotExistsAsync(..., options =>
{
    // Options related to when the test fixture is set up.
    // ---------------------------------------------------

    // (Default) Leaves all existing NoSql items untouched when the test fixture is created.
    options.OnSetup.LeaveAllItems();

    // Delete all NoSql items that already existed before the test fixture creation, when there was already a NoSql container available.
    options.OnSetup.CleanAllItems();

    // Delete all NoSql items that matches any of the configured filters,
    // upon the test fixture creation, when there was already a NoSql container available.
    options.OnSetup.CleanMatchingItems(
        NoSqlItemFilter.ItemEqual((Shipment s) => s.BoatName == "The Alice"),
        NoSqlItemFilter.ItemIdEqual("123"));
    
    // Options related to when the test fixture is teared down.
    // --------------------------------------------------------

    // (Default) Delete all NoSql items that were inserted by the test fixture.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanCreatedItems();

    // Delete all NoSql items upon the test fixture disposal,
    // even if the test fixture didn't inserted them.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanAllItems();

    // Delete all NoSql items that matches any of the configured filters,
    // upon the test fixture disposal, even if the test fixture didn't inserted them.
    // ⚠️ NoSql items inserted by the test fixture will always be deleted, regardless of the configured filters.
    options.OnTeardown.CleanMatchingItems(
        NoSqlItemFilter.ItemEqual((Shipment s) => s.BoatName == "The Alice"),
        NoSqlItemFilter.ItemIdEqual("123"));
});

// `OnTeardown` is also still available after the temporary container is created:
await using TemporaryNoSqlContainer container = ...

container.OnTeardown.CleanAllItems();
```

> 🎖️ The `TemporaryNoSqlContainer` will always remove any NoSql items that were inserted via the temporary container itself with the `container.AddItemAsync`. This follows the 'clean environment' testing principal that any test should not leave any state it created behind after the test has run.

### Temporary NoSql item
The `TemporaryNoSqlItem` provides a solution when the integration test requires a item during the test run. A NoSql item is created upon the setup of the test fixture and is deleted again when the test fixture is disposed.

> ⚡ When the item already existed (already a item with a same configured item ID), then the test fixture will revert to the original content of the item upon the test fixture disposal.

```csharp
using Arcus.Testing;

Container containerClient = ...

var shipment = new Shipment { Id = "123", BoatName = "The Alice" };

await using var item = await TemporaryNoSqlItem.InsertIfNotExistsAsync(
    containerClient,
    shipment,
    logger);

string itemId = item.Id;
PartitionKey partitionKey = item.PartitionKey;
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
